Now that we've published an initial version of our package, it is time to actually go back through
all of our code and start moving stuff over to this common library.
And before we do so, quick note on how we're going to actually execute code inside of here and make
it available to other projects.
So we've written out a lot of TypeScript middleware error handling stuff and so on that we want to share
with other services.
How are we going to share this typescript?
Well, just something to keep in mind inside this common library.
We are going to be writing out TypeScript with a very particular version.
In the future, we might try to install this thing into a service that is using a different version
of TypeScript.
We do not want to have any version issues between one version of TypeScript and use inside this common
library and another version being used in some service.
All right.
In the future, in addition, we might not even be writing out services using TypeScript at all.
We might be writing them using plain JavaScript.
So to solve both these possible issues.
Our common library is going to be written as TypeScript, so we're going to have TypeScript middleware
error handling stuff and so on.
But before publishing our code, we're going to transfer file it inside this common library into JavaScript.
So we're going to write TypeScript, publish JavaScript, and that's going to mean that we can very
easily use this code anywhere, at any point in time without any issues whatsoever.
So at a very practical level, what does this mean?
Well, it just means we need to set up some tooling inside this shared library to take all the typescript
we write inside of it and convert it into plain JavaScript.
That's pretty much it.
So in this video, we're going to install a couple of dependencies that's going to make it really easy
for us to build our package into JavaScript code and eventually publish that stuff.
To get started.
I'm going to go back over to my terminal.
Inside of my common directory.
I'm going to first get started by generating a typescript config file or config file.
So I'm going to run.
Tsk.
Dash.
Dash in it.
That'll generate a config file.
I'm then going to install TypeScript into this project with npm install.
TypeScript.
I'm also going to install something else we're going to use for a little bit of assistance in this tooling
process called Dell CLI.
And I'm going to install both these as development dependencies.
So I only want to have these installed when we're doing development on the common package.
I do not want to install them if we are adding this package into some other service.
Now that we've got that put together, I'm going to go back over to my editor and we're going to manually
write out a little typescript file.
We're going to try to eventually turn it into some plain JavaScript and publish it.
So inside of Common, I'm going to create a new folder called Z.
Inside of that, I'm going to make a file called.
Index dots.
And then inside of here, we're going to write out just a little bit of sample typescript code and eventually
try to transfer, file it down to JavaScript and publish it.
So let's write out something that actually looks kind of typescript.
I'll put inside of your interface.
Color.
And how about we'll have red?
That's a number.
Lou, that's a number.
And Green.
That's a number.
And they'll just create some kind of variable.
Called color.
I'm going to annotate it as type color.
And I'll put in a red of ten.
Blue ten.
Green ten.
And then how about a simple console log of color?
Okay.
So at this point, we have some typescript code instead of here, as we will as soon as we start to
move over all of that common code from the service.
So now I want to make sure that we've got a really easy way to take this index file and simply convert
it into JavaScript.
That's all I really want to do here.
So we're going to open up our package JSON file.
We're going to find our script section.
We're going to add something inside of here to build our project.
It's going to take all the typescript and turn it into JavaScript that we can then publish very easily.
I'm going to find the existing test command and delete it.
I'm then going to replace it with a build command.
Whenever we run built, I want to execute the command task inside of our project.
That's going to run the TypeScript compiler and we're going to set up the TypeScript compiler to find
that indexed file and turn it into, you guessed it, JavaScript code.
To do so we do have to provide a little bit of configuration to TypeScript.
We need to tell it where to find our source code and where to place it after it has been turned into
JavaScript.
We're going to write that stuff out inside that config file that we generated just a moment ago.
Inside of here.
We're going to add in a couple of different options.
Mostly, we're going to uncomment some of these default things to get placed inside of here.
We're going to first find declaration.
And uncomment that.
That makes sure that when we turn our TypeScript into JavaScript, it's going to also generate a type
definition file.
So even if we stall install this module into a service that uses TypeScript, we'll still have a type
definition file that will allow TypeScript to figure out what is going on inside of our common module.
I'm then going to find out later right here.
I'm going to uncomment that and I'm going to change the path to build like so.
So after generating our JavaScript code, we're going to take everything got generated and stick it
into a new folder inside of our common directory called Build.
And that is pretty much it.
I think there's nothing else inside of here that we're going to worry about.
Yep.
That's it.
Yes.
Let's save both these files, the config and the package JSON and then going to go over to my terminal.
And I'll execute.
NPM, run, build.
That should take the TypeScript file we wrote out, convert it into JavaScript and then write it into
that build directory.
And sure enough, there it is right there.
So we've now got an index dogs file only JavaScript inside there.
And we've also got a type definition file as well that's declaring or defining all the different types
that we had used inside of our project.
So this is definitely a good step forward.
Now, one thing that we're going to add in here very quickly, any time we make a change to our project,
it's very common to want to remove everything inside of the build directory before we rebuild it, not
just make sure that we are doing a very fresh, clean build every single time.
For that.
That's why we installed this dell cli tool.
I can add in another script here called Clean.
And whenever we run clean, I'm going to execute Dell Build Star.
So if we run the clean script, it's going to delete the build directory so we can rebuild our project
from scratch without worrying about having any kind of leftover build stuff or anything like that.
And then going to update the build command to make sure that we always attempt to clean before we build.
So I'll put in NPM ran clean and TSC likes to.
Yeah.
I'll then go back over.
I'm going to execute NPM, run, build again.
So that's going to delete the build directory and then rebuild the project using the TypeScript compiler.
And so I'll see.
Yep.
Still got everything inside of here, deleted everything and re created it.
So this is a good start right here.
There's just a little bit more config we have to do.
So quick pause and we'll continue in just a moment.